STAC-23583: rewrite rbac roles description in easier digestible format (#123)
rancher/stackstate-product-docs: docs/latest/modules/en/pages/setup/security/rbac/rbac_rancher.adoc

The SUSE Rancher Prime Observability Extension uses Kubernetes RBAC to grant access to Rancher users in SUSE Observability.
If you do not use Rancher, look at xref:/setup/security/rbac/rbac_roles.adoc[How to set up roles] in a standalone installation.

[NOTE]
====
for Rancher RBAC to function, 

* authentication for SUSE Observability must be configured with the xref:setup/security/authentication/oidc.adoc#_rancher[Rancher OIDC Provider].
* the SUSE Observability Agent must have the RBAC Agent enabled and must authenticate using a service token.
====

Every authenticated user has *Instance Basic Access* role that allow them to use the system.  These permissions give access to the views, settings, metric bindings and let a user see system notifications.  They do NOT grant access to any observability data.  In order to see any data, a user needs to be given an additional role.  Two directions for extending this *Instance Basic Access* are provided with Rancher *Role Templates*:

> Instance Roles:: these roles give the possibility of configuring or personalizing {stacktate-product-name}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instance Roles: Enables you to configure or personalize {stacktate-product-name}.
```

Scoped Roles:: these roles grant access to observability data from observed clusters

== Instance roles

You can assign the *Role Templates* for *Instance Roles* to users or groups in the *Project* that is running {stackstate-product-name}.  If no instance roles are explicitly assigned to a member of a project, they will have the permissions of the *Instance Basic Access* role.

=== Instance roles with access to observability data

A couple of "global" roles allow access to all observability data - in any of the observed clusters.  These roles are intended to be used for setting up the system and for troubleshooting system-level problems.  For users with any of these roles, it is not necessary to configure xref:scoped[Scoped Roles].

Instance Admin:: has full access to all views and has all permissions.
Instance Troubleshooter:: has all permissions required to use SUSE Observability for troubleshooting, including the ability to enable/disable monitors, create custom views and use the Cli.  
Instance Observer:: grants access to all data in a SUSE Observability instance.  

> === Instance roles without access to observability data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Instance roles without access to {stackstate-product-name} data
```

These roles need to be combined with the *Instance Observer* role or one of the xref:scoped[Scoped Roles] (see below).  Otherwise, no observability data is accessible and the UI will show a "No components found" message.  This applies to all Rancher users, including e.g. Project owners.

Instance Recommended Access:: has recommended permissions for using SUSE Observability.  This role includes permissions that are not strictly necessary, but provide (limited) means of personalization {stackstate-product-name}.
Instance Basic Access:: minimal permissions for using SUSE Observability. This role does not need to be explicitly assigned (and there is no *Role Template* for it) - every logged-in user has it. 

You can find the permissions assigned to each predefined SUSE Observability role below. For details of the different permissions and how to manage them using the `sts` CLI, see xref:/setup/security/rbac/rbac_permissions.adoc[Role based access control (RBAC) permissions]

[tabs]
====
Basic Access::
+
--

> Basic access grants minimal permissions for using SUSE Observability.  To be combined with an Observer (Instance, Cluster or Project).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basic access grants minimal permissions for using SUSE Observability. To be combined with an Observer (Instance, Cluster or Project).
```

These permissions are granted to all users.

|===
|Resource |Verbs 

|metric-bindings |get
|settings |get
|system-notifications |get
|views |get
|===

--
Recommended Access::
+
--

> Recommended access grants permissions that are not strictly necessary, but that make SUSE Observability a lot more useful.  It provides a limited degree of personalization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recommended access grants permissions that are not strictly necessary, but that make SUSE Observability a lot more useful. It provides a limited degree of personalization.
```

--
====

[#scoped]
== Scoped roles

You can assign the following *Role Templates* to users or groups in an observed cluster.  They grant access to observability data coming from (a *Project* in) the *Cluster*, giving a user permission to read topology, metrics, logs and trace data.  

Observer:: grants access to data coming from namespaces in a *Project*. You can use this in the *Project Membership* section of the cluster configuration.
Cluster Observer:: grants access to all data coming from a *Cluster*. You can use this template in the *Cluster Membership* section of the cluster configuration.

> The resources in these roles correspond to xref:/setup/security/rbac/rbac_permissions.adoc#_scoped_permissions[Scoped Permissions].  They are available in the `scope.observability.cattle.io` API Group (with just verb `get` as these resources are read only):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resources in these roles correspond to xref:/setup/security/rbac/rbac_permissions.adoc#_scoped_permissions[Scoped Permissions]. They are available in the `scope.observability.cattle.io` API Group (with just verb `get` as these resources are read only):
```
